
From rwatson@freebsd.org Thu Oct 23 20:35:46 2003
Date: Sun, 9 Apr 2000 12:26:28 -0400 (EDT)
From: Robert Watson <rwatson@freebsd.org>
Reply-To: TrustedBSD Discussion List <trustedbsd-discuss@trustedbsd.org>
To: TrustedBSD Announcements List <trustedbsd-announce@trustedbsd.org>
Subject: Announcement: TrustedBSD Extensions Project


I'm happy to announce the TrustedBSD Project, a set of trusted operating
system extensions for the FreeBSD operating system.  TrustedBSD consists
of a set of kernel and user-land extensions targeting the Orange Book B1
evaluation criteria.  Development is currently underway, and most of the
code is destined to go back into the base FreeBSD operating system;
however, as some components are both extensive and intrusive, the
TrustedBSD project provides a forum for discussion, design, and
development in the interim. 

Trusted operating systems have a variety of requirements above and beyond
the normal operating system feature set, including the requirement that
they be extensively documented.  To whet your appetite, the following
features are among those under development: 

o Extensible and audited authorization framework for integrating
  third-party authorization modules, including general-purpose subject and
  object labeling and centralized policy management. 

o Fine-grained capabilities for system functions so as to implement least-
  privilege and reduce the risks of compromise. 

o Mandatory access control for privacy and integrity, allowing FreeBSD to
  be used in environments hosting mutually suspicious parties and
  multi-level security models. 

o Access control lists for the file system and other kernel resources
  allowing fine-grained and manageable discretionary access control

o Event auditing support and single-host modular IDS system to monitor
  security events and notify administrators in the event of irregularities

The TrustedBSD extensions will be made available under a two-clause
BSD-style license, which permits integration of the extensions into
projects under almost any licensing model, both free and commercial. 

A web site is now online to act as a central source of information about
the project, and as a distribution point for code not yet committed to the
FreeBSD source repository.

  http://www.trustedbsd.org/

There are also two mailing lists, trustedbsd-discuss and
trustedbsd-announce; more mailing lists will be created as necessary.  To
subscribe to these mailing lists, please send email to:

  majordomo@trustedbsd.org

Further information is available on the web site. 

  Robert N M Watson 

robert@fledge.watson.org              http://www.watson.org/~robert/
PGP key fingerprint: AF B5 5F FF A6 4A 79 37  ED 5F 55 E9 58 04 6A B1
TIS Labs at Network Associates, Safeport Network Services


To Unsubscribe: send mail to majordomo@cyrus.watson.org
with "unsubscribe trustedbsd-announce" in the body of the message
